docs/metadata/defs.md, before:

<!-- Generated with Stardoc: http://skydoc.bazel.build -->

Public API of `@package_metadata`.

<a id="PackageAttributeInfo"></a>

## PackageAttributeInfo

<pre>
load("@package_metadata//:defs.bzl", "PackageAttributeInfo")

PackageAttributeInfo(<a href="#PackageAttributeInfo-kind">kind</a>, <a href="#PackageAttributeInfo-attributes">attributes</a>, <a href="#PackageAttributeInfo-files">files</a>)
</pre>

Provider for declaring metadata about a Bazel package.

> **Fields in this provider are not covered by the stability gurantee.**

**FIELDS**

| Name  | Description | Default Value |
| :------------- | :------------- | :------------- |
| <a id="PackageAttributeInfo-kind"></a>kind | The identifier of the attribute.<br><br>This should generally be in reverse DNS format (e.g., `com.example.foo`). | none |
| <a id="PackageAttributeInfo-attributes"></a>attributes | The [File](https://bazel.build/rules/lib/builtins/File) containing the attributes.<br><br>The format of this file depends on the `kind` of attribute. Please consult the documentation of the attribute. | none |
| <a id="PackageAttributeInfo-files"></a>files | A [depset](https://bazel.build/rules/lib/builtins/depset) of [File](https://bazel.build/rules/lib/builtins/File)s containing information about this attribute. | `[]` |


<a id="PackageMetadataInfo"></a>

## PackageMetadataInfo

<pre>
load("@package_metadata//:defs.bzl", "PackageMetadataInfo")

PackageMetadataInfo(<a href="#PackageMetadataInfo-metadata">metadata</a>, <a href="#PackageMetadataInfo-files">files</a>)
</pre>

Provider for declaring metadata about a Bazel package.

> **Fields in this provider are not covered by the stability gurantee.**

**FIELDS**

| Name  | Description | Default Value |
| :------------- | :------------- | :------------- |
| <a id="PackageMetadataInfo-metadata"></a>metadata | The [File](https://bazel.build/rules/lib/builtins/File) containing metadata about the package. | none |
| <a id="PackageMetadataInfo-files"></a>files | A [depset](https://bazel.build/rules/lib/builtins/depset) of [File](https://bazel.build/rules/lib/builtins/File)s with metadata about the package, including transitive files from all attributes of the package. | `[]` |


<a id="package_metadata"></a>

## package_metadata

<pre>
load("@package_metadata//:defs.bzl", "package_metadata")

package_metadata(*, <a href="#package_metadata-name">name</a>, <a href="#package_metadata-purl">purl</a>, <a href="#package_metadata-attributes">attributes</a>, <a href="#package_metadata-visibility">visibility</a>)
</pre>



**PARAMETERS**


| Name  | Description | Default Value |
| :------------- | :------------- | :------------- |
| <a id="package_metadata-name"></a>name |  <p align="center"> - </p>   |  none |
| <a id="package_metadata-purl"></a>purl |  <p align="center"> - </p>   |  none |
| <a id="package_metadata-attributes"></a>attributes |  <p align="center"> - </p>   |  `[]` |
| <a id="package_metadata-visibility"></a>visibility |  <p align="center"> - </p>   |  `None` |


<a id="purl.bazel"></a>

## purl.bazel

<pre>
load("@package_metadata//:defs.bzl", "purl")

purl.bazel(<a href="#purl.bazel-name">name</a>, <a href="#purl.bazel-version">version</a>)
</pre>

Defines a `purl` for a Bazel module.

This is typically used to construct `purl` for `package_metadata` targets in
Bazel modules.

This is **NOT** supported in `WORKSPACE` mode.

Example:

```starlark
load("@package_metadata//purl:purl.bzl", "purl")

package_metadata(
    name = "package_metadata",
    purl = purl.bazel(module_name(), module_version()),
    attributes = [
        # ...
    ],
    visibility = ["//visibility:public"],
)
```


**PARAMETERS**


| Name  | Description | Default Value |
| :------------- | :------------- | :------------- |
| <a id="purl.bazel-name"></a>name |  The name of the Bazel module. Typically [module_name()](https://bazel.build/rules/lib/globals/build#module_name).   |  none |
| <a id="purl.bazel-version"></a>version |  The version of the Bazel module. Typically [module_version()](https://bazel.build/rules/lib/globals/build#module_version). May be empty or `None`.   |  none |

**RETURNS**

The `purl` for the Bazel module (e.g. `pkg:bazel/foo` or
  `pkg:bazel/bar@1.2.3`).

Commit message:

Add kind and purl to PackageMetadataInfo
kind helps when dispatching on gathered metadata when mixing out stuff
with company private metadata. It is a valid distinguisher to know
to pass that to sbom generation.

Having the purl in the provide helps with debugging and demos,
and simply being able to produce useful output during analysis time.

docs/metadata/defs.md, after:

<!-- Generated with Stardoc: http://skydoc.bazel.build -->

Public API of `@package_metadata`.

<a id="PackageAttributeInfo"></a>

## PackageAttributeInfo

<pre>
load("@package_metadata//:defs.bzl", "PackageAttributeInfo")

PackageAttributeInfo(<a href="#PackageAttributeInfo-kind">kind</a>, <a href="#PackageAttributeInfo-attributes">attributes</a>, <a href="#PackageAttributeInfo-files">files</a>)
</pre>

Provider for declaring metadata about a Bazel package.

> **Fields in this provider are not covered by the stability gurantee.**

**FIELDS**

| Name  | Description | Default Value |
| :------------- | :------------- | :------------- |
| <a id="PackageAttributeInfo-kind"></a>kind | The identifier of the attribute.<br><br>This should generally be in reverse DNS format (e.g., `com.example.foo`). | none |
| <a id="PackageAttributeInfo-attributes"></a>attributes | The [File](https://bazel.build/rules/lib/builtins/File) containing the attributes.<br><br>The format of this file depends on the `kind` of attribute. Please consult the documentation of the attribute. | none |
| <a id="PackageAttributeInfo-files"></a>files | A [depset](https://bazel.build/rules/lib/builtins/depset) of [File](https://bazel.build/rules/lib/builtins/File)s containing information about this attribute. | `[]` |


<a id="PackageMetadataInfo"></a>

## PackageMetadataInfo

<pre>
load("@package_metadata//:defs.bzl", "PackageMetadataInfo")

PackageMetadataInfo(<a href="#PackageMetadataInfo-_init-metadata">metadata</a>, <a href="#PackageMetadataInfo-_init-purl">purl</a>, <a href="#PackageMetadataInfo-_init-files">files</a>)
</pre>

Provider for declaring metadata about a Bazel package.

> **Fields in this provider are not covered by the stability gurantee.**

**CONSTRUCTOR PARAMETERS**

| Name  | Description | Default Value |
| :------------- | :------------- | :------------- |
| <a id="PackageMetadataInfo-_init-metadata"></a>metadata | The [File](https://bazel.build/rules/lib/builtins/File) containing metadata about the package. | none |
| <a id="PackageMetadataInfo-_init-purl"></a>purl | PURL | none |
| <a id="PackageMetadataInfo-_init-files"></a>files | A [depset](https://bazel.build/rules/lib/builtins/depset) of [File](https://bazel.build/rules/lib/builtins/File)s with metadata about the package, including transitive files from all attributes of the package. | `[]` |

**FIELDS**

| Name  | Description |
| :------------- | :------------- |
| <a id="PackageMetadataInfo-kind"></a>kind |  Type descriminator    |
| <a id="PackageMetadataInfo-files"></a>files |  A [depset](https://bazel.build/rules/lib/builtins/depset) of [File](https://bazel.build/rules/lib/builtins/File)s with metadata about the package, including transitive files from all attributes of the package.    |
| <a id="PackageMetadataInfo-metadata"></a>metadata |  The [File](https://bazel.build/rules/lib/builtins/File) containing metadata about the package.    |
| <a id="PackageMetadataInfo-purl"></a>purl |  PURL    |


<a id="package_metadata"></a>

## package_metadata

<pre>
load("@package_metadata//:defs.bzl", "package_metadata")

package_metadata(*, <a href="#package_metadata-name">name</a>, <a href="#package_metadata-purl">purl</a>, <a href="#package_metadata-attributes">attributes</a>, <a href="#package_metadata-visibility">visibility</a>)
</pre>



**PARAMETERS**


| Name  | Description | Default Value |
| :------------- | :------------- | :------------- |
| <a id="package_metadata-name"></a>name |  <p align="center"> - </p>   |  none |
| <a id="package_metadata-purl"></a>purl |  <p align="center"> - </p>   |  none |
| <a id="package_metadata-attributes"></a>attributes |  <p align="center"> - </p>   |  `[]` |
| <a id="package_metadata-visibility"></a>visibility |  <p align="center"> - </p>   |  `None` |


<a id="purl.bazel"></a>

## purl.bazel

<pre>
load("@package_metadata//:defs.bzl", "purl")

purl.bazel(<a href="#purl.bazel-name">name</a>, <a href="#purl.bazel-version">version</a>)
</pre>

Defines a `purl` for a Bazel module.

This is typically used to construct `purl` for `package_metadata` targets in
Bazel modules.

This is **NOT** supported in `WORKSPACE` mode.

Example:

```starlark
load("@package_metadata//purl:purl.bzl", "purl")

package_metadata(
    name = "package_metadata",
    purl = purl.bazel(module_name(), module_version()),
    attributes = [
        # ...
    ],
    visibility = ["//visibility:public"],
)
```


**PARAMETERS**


| Name  | Description | Default Value |
| :------------- | :------------- | :------------- |
| <a id="purl.bazel-name"></a>name |  The name of the Bazel module. Typically [module_name()](https://bazel.build/rules/lib/globals/build#module_name).   |  none |
| <a id="purl.bazel-version"></a>version |  The version of the Bazel module. Typically [module_version()](https://bazel.build/rules/lib/globals/build#module_version). May be empty or `None`.   |  none |

**RETURNS**

The `purl` for the Bazel module (e.g. `pkg:bazel/foo` or
  `pkg:bazel/bar@1.2.3`).
