docs/metadata/providers/package_metadata_info.md, before:

<!-- Generated with Stardoc: http://skydoc.bazel.build -->

Declares provider `PackageMetadataInfo`.

<a id="PackageMetadataInfo"></a>

## PackageMetadataInfo

<pre>
load("@package_metadata//providers:package_metadata_info.bzl", "PackageMetadataInfo")

PackageMetadataInfo(<a href="#PackageMetadataInfo-metadata">metadata</a>, <a href="#PackageMetadataInfo-files">files</a>)
</pre>

Provider for declaring metadata about a Bazel package.

> **Fields in this provider are not covered by the stability gurantee.**

**FIELDS**

| Name  | Description | Default Value |
| :------------- | :------------- | :------------- |
| <a id="PackageMetadataInfo-metadata"></a>metadata | The [File](https://bazel.build/rules/lib/builtins/File) containing metadata about the package. | none |
| <a id="PackageMetadataInfo-files"></a>files | A [depset](https://bazel.build/rules/lib/builtins/depset) of [File](https://bazel.build/rules/lib/builtins/File)s with metadata about the package, including transitive files from all attributes of the package. | `[]` |

Commit message:

Add kind and purl to PackageMetadataInfo
kind helps when dispatching on gathered metadata when mixing out stuff
with company private metadata. It is a valid distinguisher to know
to pass that to sbom generation.

Having the purl in the provide helps with debugging and demos,
and simply being able to produce useful output during analysis time.

docs/metadata/providers/package_metadata_info.md, after:

<!-- Generated with Stardoc: http://skydoc.bazel.build -->

Declares provider `PackageMetadataInfo`.

<a id="PackageMetadataInfo"></a>

## PackageMetadataInfo

<pre>
load("@package_metadata//providers:package_metadata_info.bzl", "PackageMetadataInfo")

PackageMetadataInfo(<a href="#PackageMetadataInfo-_init-metadata">metadata</a>, <a href="#PackageMetadataInfo-_init-purl">purl</a>, <a href="#PackageMetadataInfo-_init-files">files</a>)
</pre>

Provider for declaring metadata about a Bazel package.

> **Fields in this provider are not covered by the stability gurantee.**

**CONSTRUCTOR PARAMETERS**

| Name  | Description | Default Value |
| :------------- | :------------- | :------------- |
| <a id="PackageMetadataInfo-_init-metadata"></a>metadata | The [File](https://bazel.build/rules/lib/builtins/File) containing metadata about the package. | none |
| <a id="PackageMetadataInfo-_init-purl"></a>purl | PURL | none |
| <a id="PackageMetadataInfo-_init-files"></a>files | A [depset](https://bazel.build/rules/lib/builtins/depset) of [File](https://bazel.build/rules/lib/builtins/File)s with metadata about the package, including transitive files from all attributes of the package. | `[]` |

**FIELDS**

| Name  | Description |
| :------------- | :------------- |
| <a id="PackageMetadataInfo-kind"></a>kind |  Type descriminator    |
| <a id="PackageMetadataInfo-files"></a>files |  A [depset](https://bazel.build/rules/lib/builtins/depset) of [File](https://bazel.build/rules/lib/builtins/File)s with metadata about the package, including transitive files from all attributes of the package.    |
| <a id="PackageMetadataInfo-metadata"></a>metadata |  The [File](https://bazel.build/rules/lib/builtins/File) containing metadata about the package.    |
| <a id="PackageMetadataInfo-purl"></a>purl |  PURL    |
